

























Saurabh Kumar 
MSc AIS(18441238) 
Hong Kong Baptist University  
18441238@life.hkbu.edu.hk  
 
 
 

Blockchain* 
 
History 
The introduction of Bitcoin in 2009 by way of Satoshi Nakamoto may be considered as a Pioneer 
moment within the evolution of virtual forex. Although modern, as it turned into the primary 
decentralized cryptocurrency, Bitcoin’s maximum considerable contribution to the sector is that it 
added to the mainstream standards like blockchain and smart contracts. 
despite the fact that the primary work on a cryptographically secured chain of blocks started 1991 via 
pioneers of the enterprise, Stuart Haber and W. Scott Stornetta and continued at some stage in the 
mid-2000’s. The first blockchain changed into conceptualized by using Satoshi Nakamoto in 2008, 
which later applied as a central factor of Bitcoin. 
 
Introduction 
The aim of this paper is brief exploration of blockchain, with the key inquiries to be answered: 
● What is blockchain? 
● How does it work? 
● It’s possibilities. 
● Future improvements. 
● Blockchain Applications 

 
In order get  answer all of those queries initially . This paper are going to be a survey of 
what people have already written on blockchain, analysis done on blockchain or perhaps achieved 
with blockchain. For the last question this paper can try and provide a epigrammatic summary of the 
various variables that each one have one thing to try with blockchain and the way they act with one 
another. And it'll offer some insights into however the creator of the blockchain will 
influence bound aspects of the blockchain.  
There are speedy developments among blockchain and currently going on. There are many 
alternative varieties of blockchain that surfaced, every slightly completely different from each 
other in many alternative respects. For this reason this paper focusses on the primary blockchain, the 
Nakamoto blockchain that is that the most documented blockchain because of its association to 
Bitcoin.  
Even with this restriction, there many new terms and ideas that area  all tangled with one another. 
 
Blockchain Architecture Considerations: 
To better understand blockchain we first need to discuss the design aspects – 
● Blockchain platform 
● Nodes overall in blockchain & the its discovery process 
● Transactions which makes blocks running in the Nodes 
● Security that produces the Blocks 
● Adding newer blocks to the Chain 

 

mailto:18441238@life.hkbu.edu.hk


 
 
Fig: 1 –  Wire Transfer of Bitcoin using the Blockchain shared ledger 

Blockchain Platform 

Blockchain runs at the dispensed network of severs. Foremost utility is a transaction database 
modelled as isolated ledger, this is shared by means of all nodes (servers) that run the full stack install. 
It is consequently a one hundred % decentralized transaction flow that acts as a tremendously 
translucent ledger. Any node running the Blockchain software program can run the complete 
Blockchain regionally. At the same time as the Blockchain data can be stored in any relational it can 
also be stored in a flat document depending on user preferences. 

 
Fig 2 – Blockchain Architectural Layers 

 



 

Nodes in the Blockchain: 

Blockchain is a peer to see (P2P) network functioning at the IP protocol on the net. A Peer to peer 
community is essentially a flat topology with no centralized node, hierarchy, or unique server node. 
All nodes equally provide & can take services while collaborating thru a consensus service. The nodes 
inside the blockchain play the role of a primary bank or a depended on third party. Every node have 
the copy of a the blocks database that consist of the price entary  of every bitcoin ever created and the 
owner information. 
The graphic below shows the current number of nodes active in the bitcoin network and their 
locations on the globe. 
 

 

Fig 3 – Blockchain Nodes – Jan 25,2016 

There are 4 basic node types. All of the node types explores  and maintain connectivity with peers & 
validate blocks. 
Full nodes keeps the complete copy of the blockchain database and can check any operation without 
the need for an external check-up. On the other side, nodes that only store a subset of the blockchain 
database verify transactions using a method called Simplified Payment Verification (SPV). 
 
Miners perform the core method by that transactions get confirmed & processed and 
eventually enclosed within the blockchain. To be confirmed as valid, transactions 1st packed in an 
exceedingly organization & format referred to as a Block that should satisfy crypto rules that get 
verified by the blockchain network. Cryptography additionally prevents already added  blocks from 
being additional changed as doing thus would invalidate all following blocks – that secures system 
integrity.  
The manual labourer node thought is exclusive to blockchain because it confers it a high level of 
security as a result of half  the manual labourer nodes dearly termed the “51% attack ” (which may be 
a computationally not possible deed to perform at scale), the network can not be compromised 
or seized. 
 



Network Protocol Stack​: ​Once nodes get started, they perform a peer discovery to contact the 
other valid node employing a given port over TCP protocol. The Blockchain stack 
is represented below and is superimposed on the OSI stack. The Blockchain Message Exchange 
specifies the acknowledgment logic between nodes yet because the serialisation format for 
messages changed over the wire. 
The Blockchain Intersection Network provides higher level linguistics that permit multiple varieties 
of blockchains (public, vertical specific blockchains) to co-exist yet as provides management 
abstraction for an equivalent. Developers can basically use this layer to increase bland blockchain to 
support other forms of applications which might leverage the present  blockchain to validate their 
transactions. E.g. other forms of virtual currency, sidechains etc. 
 

 
Fig :4- Blockchain Network Architecture 

Transactions and Blocks: 
The blockchain execution consists of two kinds of records: transactions and blocks. 
 
Salient features of transactions – 
Transactions can be created by any client using a Mobile Wallet or any other client app. 
Transactions consist of the real business data to be stored in the blockchain 
Blocks keeps the sequence of transactions in the blockchain. Transactions are entered into the 
blockchain based on certain sequences 



 

Fig:5- Transactions are converted into Blocks 

The  illustration shows however forex transactions into blocks. As may be seen, once 
a dealings (typically a booth purchase or wire transfer or Mastercard payment etc) is acquiesced into 
the system, a dealings (say dealings A) is generated that's pushed into the blockchain node network. 
A mineworker node(s) intercepts this to try some health checking, once done and it's determined 
that this is often a legit dealings, it's fed into a cryptographical hash operate as pictured to come up 
with a novel string of digits. it's then even be combined with alternative transactions as shown. The 
created hash is then hold on with alternative information into the header of a 
knowledge structure known as a block. The header is vital because it becomes the premise for running 
the hash operate once more to form a baby block. 
 
The hash operation is employed because the scientific discipline puzzle that the miners race to 
resolve by wanting over just about trillions of potentialities. The mineworker that solves it 1st submits 
it for a check by alternative nodes and once found, the block is hold on into the blockchain for 
posterity. The mineworker node is then attributable a really tiny proportion of the dealings as fees. 
 
 
Blockchain: Future Improvements. 
Blockchain was firstly created only for decentralising ledger for Bitcoin. Now, Blockchain technology             
seems to influence vast number of industries within the very couple of years. 
 
Some of the most exciting future blockchain improvements. 
 
Improved automation 
 
We’ve seen the start that what can be  accomplished with smart contracts, however there's plenty to 
come.  
We are motivated to believe it won’t be long till all insurance claims are settled mechanically due 
to algorithms keep among sensible contracts. All the knowledge required to method a claim (from 
multiple sources) and judge the proper outcome can mechanically be keep among the blockchain. 
Ultimately, the method of subsidence the claim will begin while not somebody's lifting a finger. 



This will serve to enhance the accuracy of claims, whereas cutting the price for 
insurance firms, permitting them to lower premiums (if they need to try to so). 
The improvement of smart contracts and thus the automation of blockchain can play an enormous role 
in its mass adoption across many totally different industries. Many start-ups performing 
on introducing a blockchain-based answer to political ballot. In The insurance sector the automation 
of blockchain will improve the accuracy of claims, while reducing the cost for insurance company, so 
that they can lower premium costs. 
 
Improved speed 
Improving the speed of Blockchain processing is very much needed, because this is something which 
pushes it back. To process a single block the current processing time is 6Second per block. There have 
been a recent development which is done by one company named DasCoin who claims to decrease the 
processing time  from 6 second to 3 seconds, which is tremendous development. But in comparison 
the Visa merchant does 5000 transactions per second huge difference. Though the Visa is not based 
on blockchain principle. There is much work needed in improving the transaction speed (and maybe 
better security too). 

 
Improved (DAO) decentralized autonomous organizations 
The concept of decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs) was one of the most talked uses of 
the blockchain. $150+  million worth of capital funding was raised in to launch the first DAO 
(called‘The DAO) in 2016, but this was right way hacked and the project was eventually sacked. 
DAOs has shut down, but there is still many work going on to improve the capacity of blockchain 
technology. We can’t predict what the future has to offer, but one thing is for sure — blockchain 
technology had only touched the surface of what we’ll see happen in the coming years. 
 
 
Blockchain Applications 
 
Blockchain Applications That Are Shaping Your Future.​Blockchain information storage can become a 
huge disruptor shortly. (3-5 years).Current cloud storage services many centralized — The 
users should place trust in an exceedingly single storage supplier. “They” management all of 
your on-line assets. 
 
On the opposite hand with the Blockchain, this will become suburbanised it is also in beta-testing 
cloud storage employing a Blockchain-powered network to enhance security and 
reduce dependency. To boot, users (you) will loan their excess storage capability, 
Airbnb-style, making new marketplaces. 
 
Anyone on the net will store your information at a pre-agreed value. Hashing and having the info in 
multiple locations square measure the keys to securing it. 
 
Digital Identity  
Blockchain technology answer to several digital identity problems, wherever identity is 
unambiguously attested in an incontrovertible, immutable, and secure manner. Current ways use 
problematic password-based systems of shared secrets changed and hold on insecure systems. 
Blockchain-based authentication systems area 
unit supported incontrovertible identification victimization digital signatures supported public key 
cryptography. In blockchain identity authentication, the sole check performed is whether or not or not 
the dealings was signed by the right personal key. it's inferred that whoever has access to 
the personal secret's the owner and therefore the precise identity of the owner is deemed irrelevant . 
 
 
 



 
Smart Contracts 
Smart contracts solve the matter of go-between trust between parties to an agreement, whether or 
not that's between individuals transferring assets like gold,  or execution choices between two 
 parties in an exceedingly contract. 
 
Conclusion 
As mentioned higher than, most of those applications square measure still underdeveloped the long 
run potential of the blockchain applications remains un raveling. consecutive couples of years are 
going to be all regarding experimenting and applying to all or any aspects of 
society. despite that application comes 1st on a worldwide scale. all-time low line is, Blockchain is 
here to remain and is re modelling however our society functions. 
 
References  
 
https://blockchain.info/api 
https://bitcoin.org/en/developer-reference 
”Mastering Bitcoin” – Andreas Antonopoulus – O’Reilly Press 
https://bitnodes.21.co 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bitcoin_network 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Block_chain_(database) 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blockchain 
https://www.packtpub.com/mapt/book/big_data_and_business_intelligence/9781787125445/1/ch01lvl
1sec8/the-history-of-blockchain 
https://blog.modex.tech/a-brief-history-of-blockchain-smart-contracts-and-their-implementation-c3ac
6f00f014 
https://finance.yahoo.com/news/brief-history-blockchain-120057718.html 
https://www.huffingtonpost.com/ameer-rosic-/5-blockchain-applications_b_13279010.html  

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blockchain
https://www.packtpub.com/mapt/book/big_data_and_business_intelligence/9781787125445/1/ch01lvl1sec8/the-history-of-blockchain
https://www.packtpub.com/mapt/book/big_data_and_business_intelligence/9781787125445/1/ch01lvl1sec8/the-history-of-blockchain
https://blog.modex.tech/a-brief-history-of-blockchain-smart-contracts-and-their-implementation-c3ac6f00f014
https://blog.modex.tech/a-brief-history-of-blockchain-smart-contracts-and-their-implementation-c3ac6f00f014
https://finance.yahoo.com/news/brief-history-blockchain-120057718.html
https://www.huffingtonpost.com/ameer-rosic-/5-blockchain-applications_b_13279010.html


